# Get started

Malvid can be integrated into your project in two ways: Using the CLI *or* using the API of Malvid. This guide covers the first way and shows you how to create a simple project.

## 1. Install Malvid

First, install or update to the newest version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org). Malvid is written in Node.js, but you only need to know the basics of Node.js and JavaScript to use Malvid. Once it has finished installing, create a new folder, open it in the terminal and run the following npm command. If you wonder what npm is: It's a package manager that ships with Node.js. You should already have it installed now :)

```sh
# Create a package.json file
npm init --yes
# Install Malvid and save it as a dependency in the newly created package.json
npm install malvid --save
```

## 2. Setup your project

Malvid is now installed in your project, but needs a few files to do anything useful. Create a new folder called `src` and add a `button.html`, `button.ejs` and `button.data.json` to it. You can fill them with the following content:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
	<head>

		<meta charset="utf-8">

	</head>
	<body>

		<a class="#">Button</a>

	</body>
</html>
```

```ejs
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
	<head>

		<meta charset="utf-8">

	</head>
	<body>

		<a class="<%= href %>"><%= label %></a>

	</body>
</html>
```

```html
{
  "href": "#",
  "label": "Button"
}
```

This is just an example. The `button.html` should be generated by combining the `button.ejs` and `button.data.json`. This is your part and you can use whatever you want to generate the HTML. Typing the file by hand is okay for this guide, but you don't want to manually write your `button.html` in a real project.

It's also worth to note that you don't want to make the layout (`<html>`, `<body>` etc.) part of your component. The layout should be wrapped around the components during your compilation process to make them reusable.

## 3. Create a configuration

Malvid is installed and your first component ready. You can now create a [configuration file](Get%20started.md) in the current working directory to adjust the UI of Malvid to your needs. This step is optional and can be skipped if you wish to stay with the default configuration.

Create a file named `malvidfile.json` in the root folder of your project.

```json
{
  "src": "src/",
  "pattern": "**/*.ejs"
}
```

- `src` specifies the folder Malvid should look into. It typically contains your project or components.
- `pattern` uses the same [patterns the shell uses](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob). It specifies the component files Malvid should look for. The given pattern will match all files inside the `src` folder ending with `ejs`.

## 4. Run Malvid

It's time to fire up Malvid. Malvid has been installed into the `node_modules` directory and you can run the CLI it contains.

```sh
# Compile your project
./node_modules/.bin/malvid dist/index.html dist/index.html.json
```

## 5. View the UI

Your project should now contain a `dist` folder with two files generated by the Malvid CLI: `index.html` and `index.html.json`. Fire up a static site server of your choice and navigate to the HTML file with your browser.

## What's next

This was just a taste of what Malvid can do for you. Try the official [Skeleton](https://github.com/electerious/Skeleton-Components) project for a more practical example. Skeleton is a HTML5 Boilerplate built upon Rosid and Malvid. JS (with Babel, UglifyJS), SASS (with cssnano, Autoprefixer) and Nunjucks can be used right out of the box.